It was actually pretty routine.
You know, I'd be in the office doing administration, whatever was required.
I tried to meet with the Corps commander two or three times a week.
And of course, like I said, I would go over to General Simpson's office normally once a day.
Sometime I would just call him if I was real busy.
I'd call him.
But just stay in touch with him.
And of course, what I used to do at night, found out that all I had to do was walk over into the quad after taps and the word would get around, you know, bull, like bull in the dorm or commandants on the quad or bulls on the quad or something like that.
And I could go over and walk, maybe walk through one or two dormitories and just walk
and then sneak out of the Corps area.
Well, for the next two or three hours, nothing's gonna happen because they think I'm around there somewhere.
So I used to use that little trick.
And we were having, there was one major problem in the Corps for a time, and that was with people making bombs or someone making bombs and blowing them up, which I thought was a very serious thing.
And it's a wonder someone didn't get hurt, but that's a long story also.
But a normal day is, you know, I'd go to work in the morning and- About what time did you get to the campus?
Well I used to get there around 7 or 7.30, and then I had someone that would come in my office and talk to me for about 30 to 45 minutes and, you know, one of the other colonels, and I decided, you know, I didn't really
care to spend that much time so I quit coming in that early.
I started coming in about 8 o'clock after that and I could get just as much done anyway because all I'd do if I came in early was listen to him.
You know sometimes come out early and go to breakfast with the troops.
But generally it was, you know, and we of course had staff meetings I had to go to once a week and then I would have a staff meeting with all the three colonels and the way it was set up the other two colonels
Air Force and Navy were deputy commandants at that time.
Now, were they active duty?
They were active duty, yeah.
And who were they when you got here?
Well, Ken Durham was the Air Force and Jack Ivins was the Marine who was in charge of the Navy program.
And the membership of the Corps by services was about, out of the 2200, was about what?
It was about, I don't know, about 40% Army and probably 35% Air Force, and then the Navy was the remaining, whatever that would be.
Was there either factually or mythically any difference in the quality of the students in the three branches?
No, not really.
And nobody even claimed there was?
No, I don't think so.
That was never an issue.
And as you began, nobody told you that this group was more troublesome than that one?
Well, we had statistics, you know.
Don Johnson kept the statistics on units, and we could see how they were... But those statistics didn't vary by service?
Army?
No, I mean, we kept statistics.
In the Commandant's Office, we kept statistics on the Corps of Cadets.
Sure.
And I tried to be completely impartial when it came to services as much as possible.
I tried not to favor anybody, and they were all treated as cadet companies and not as an Air Force unit or a Navy unit or anything like that.
And so, and then I, of course, I had to spend some time in the Army on OTC, but I probably spent 5% of my time
in the ROTC program, although they paid, the Army paid 100% of my pay.
And I paid, played 90, I mean I spent 90%, 95% with the Corps, and the university paid me zero.
The only thing I got from the university, I think I got football tickets.
But other than that, there was no perks.
All right.
In the fall, that first fall?
What happened on the various days of the week that were special?
Was there a special core review on a certain day?
No, no core reviews.
Not at the beginning of school.
We, I did, might have been my second year or something, started having a fall core review because we would have march-ins and, you know, they'd be training, trying to learn how to march over there in the quad.
And there was a lot that would go on in the quad in the afternoons.
out marching and of course some playing intramural sports.
Was intramural still pretty?
Oh yeah.
It was a big thing.
Still is a big thing in the Corps.
Which day was there more drilling?
It was, we didn't have any drill like we did when I was a cadet.
Now I did eventually institute that for the Army ROTC program, a two hours drill one afternoon a week.
But it was not required by the, you know, the ROTC curriculum.
It was just something I put in as an extra requirement.
But any day of the week you'd go over there and there'd be units marching around.
And especially before football games because they, you know, they were graded on their performance on the march in and they would,
They were trying to, you know, do their best.
Now, usually on Thursday afternoon, there would be a retreat formation, and the band would be out there, or they call it the drum bugle corps, which actually was about half the band.
And we'd have a retreat formation and march in.
Of course, the corps marches in, you know, three times a day during the school week.
So that was one thing I'd usually a lot of times go over on that retreat formation.
About how often did you eat in Duncan Dining Hall that first fall?
Oh, probably three times a week.
A lot of times I would go in there and just look around and wouldn't eat, you know, just go in.
Now what was the, did the Corps have a special nickname for the Commandant?
Well, they called me Uncle Woody.
Uncle Woody.
Uncle Woody, yeah.
Okay.
Because the bull being in the building, that meant any officer didn't it?
Yeah.
A bull was a military officer.
And they didn't identify you as the head bull or the big bull or anything like that?
Not that I know of.
I'm sure I had a lot of other names.
When, as you began, as you're beginning your duties as commandant, when did you have the first kind of heart touching
event that caused you to be real proud to be in that role as an Aggie?
Well, I think it was the first time they marched into Kyle Field, you know, seeing the Corps march in.
For the first football game?
Yeah.
Do you remember anything about that march in?
No.
No, I don't.
You weren't the official reviewing officer?
No, I was on the reviewing stand, but we normally had a general officer who would be invited to come down and be the reviewing officer, but I'd be on the reviewing stand.
And when did you, how long was it before you had to deal with a real serious problem?
Well, it wasn't what you would consider a serious problem, but I considered it a problem.
And the problem was that
In the Corps at that time, if a freshman, if a senior asked a freshman what outfit he was in, then he would have to hit a hump and give his little outfit chant or outfit, I don't know what you would call it, but outfit yell, which took, you know, a little time.
And I found out that these freshmen were trying to get out of the quad to go to the eight o'clock class and they were having stopped 10, 15, 20 times because these, of course, these seniors were just new seniors, you know, just got their boots and they were feeling their oats.
And so every time they would see a freshman, they would ask him, you know, what outfit are you in?
So these freshmen, he was taking them
15, 20 minutes or longer to get out of the core area.
And, you know, they were cutting it close to go to class anyway.
So, as a result, a lot of them were being late to class.
Well, as soon as I found that out, that was my first real dealings with the core staff on something serious.
And I call the
commander and the deputy commander and I'm not sure who else was in that.
It might have been several other Corps staff members and I just put it to them bluntly that we had to do something and I thought if it came from the Corps leadership it would be a lot easier on everyone rather than me putting out an order that there would be no humping before noon.
And so they went along with me on it and they put out the word that there would be no humping
Before noon, well, you know, got a lot of flack about that.
That was just, you know, Corps gone to hell.
You know, old Army.
I never even heard of that when I was a cadet, so I know it wasn't really old Army.
In order to enforce that, I sent some bulls over, and I went over myself for a while, and any time I heard any freshman humping, I'd find out who gave him the request, and I gave him a weekend restriction.
You know, that caused a lot of heartburn around.
And I had a bunch of seniors on weekend restrictions.
So it didn't take long we, you know, we eliminated that little practice.
Now, they're probably doing it again today.
I don't know.
But the Corps staff did stick up with me.
And, of course, they were testing me and I was testing them.
So that was the first, I guess you'd consider the first crisis.
Do you remember who the first Corps commander was?
Yeah.
Gentry.
In fact, he's a lawyer here in College Station.
And a super commander, super young man.
Jarvis Miller became president and you knew Jarvis.
Describe your first conversations with him after he became president.
Well, after he became president, you know, I went to see him again.
I'd seen him a few days before that.
You know, we always talk over old times, and I went down to congratulate him, but of course he was plenty busy at that time, just coming on board.
I was really thrilled that he was gonna be the president, because I knew I would have some backing.
And see, the dormitories were in terrible shape, so I kind of blindsided Jarvis in this.
I said, I invited him to come over and have dinner with the Corps one night.
So he said, you know, he would come over,
I said, let's take a walk through these darms.
Let's look at our old darm.
Well, the darms were in terrible shape.
The paint was peeling off the walls, and they really looked bad.
And he said, I didn't realize how bad these were.
I said, well, Jarvis, this is just one.
I said, you've got 11 more just like it.
I said, it's a shame the way these things have been let, you know, have been let run down, and there really hadn't been too much maintenance on them.
So, anyway, as a result of that, immediately housing found some funds to, because all the funds were going to the other side of the campus, civilian dorms.
I knew that.
They were getting the priority on everything because, you know, you got, you know, you've got those people over in the Corps.
They're, you know, you've got a captive audience there.
We really don't have to please them, but we really need to please these civilian students.
So, anyway, some money was diverted, and I got the dorms painted, and,
and some renovation done.
Of course, they're still, even today, they're 1939 darms.
One of these days, they're going to have to be replaced.
So Jarvis was very supportive there.
Another way Jarvis was supportive is that I invited him up to summer camp
In fact, I never did go to summer camp.
I was exempt each year because I had this program, this new student program back here at A&M, and so I always got excused from going to the Army ROTC summer camp.
But I did go up there once each year and visit, and I would take a representative from A&M with me.
Well, the first year I took Jarvis, and we went up there, and we were standing out.
We were at the Officers Club, and they had some little function at the Officers Club, and we were standing out on the terrace, and
And we were talking and he said something about Don Johnson.
And I said, you know, it's a shame they don't pay that guy anymore and they pay him.
I said, I'm just embarrassed about how low his pay is.
And he said, well, what are you talking about?
And I told him what Don Johnson was making.
He said, that's terrible.
He said, send me a memo when I get back.
And so I sent him a memo requesting that he be, you know, his pay be increased and so forth.
And it was...
Shortly thereafter, he got a sizable increase in pay.
Now, summer camp for Army in those days was?
It was at Fort Riley, Kansas.
Fort Riley, Kansas.
Where the climate is always.
It's always bad.
It's hot or cold or something.
Yep, yep.
And windy, or nothing stirring.
The, that first fall, did you, what was it like to be the Commandant on a Corps trip?
Well, you know, it's funny the way these Corps trips work, and probably this is the only school that could do this, but you know, Friday afternoon you tell them, okay, fall in Saturday morning
And you give them a location in Fort Worth, Dallas, Austin, or wherever they are.
Houston.
Houston, yeah.
You tell them where to be and what time, and they would scatter, and everybody would get there.
And, you know, most places they would have to organize a train or buses and ship them up and ship them back and feed them and house them and everything like that.
But, you know, it always worked out.
It worked out for us, and we didn't have any cars.
We had to hitchhike to a court trip.
But it worked out fine, and so about the only activity I had on the court trip was to be on the reviewing stand when they had the, you know, I'd go down where they were organizing the courts, but be on the reviewing stand when they had the parade downtown in Austin or Houston.
Who was responsible for making the arrangements with the municipal authorities?
Okay, that was Don Johnson's job.
He made those arrangements for years.
During your five years?
Five years.
Any problems?
I don't remember any problem.
From court trips?
No.
We had no tragedies, did we?
Not on a court trip, no.
In fact, they had very few tragedies.
I know we had a sophomore kill one time down here on the road to Navasota.
That's about the only one I remember, you know, losing.
That first fall, do you remember going to your first Silver Taps as Commandant?
Well, I don't, I know that I went, but I really don't remember it.
But it was the same as it used to be.
Nothing had changed.
Nothing has changed.
And what about football games?
How were, you know, his commandant had, was a football game routine about what you remembered when you left?
It was just about the same.
You know, the Corps marched in, then they went to the stands, and if they won, they took the yellow leader to the fish pond, and if they lost, they,
Now, Emory Ballard was the head coach when you came.
Emory Ballard, yes.
And we were winning some games then.
Yeah.
During, on a football day, home football Saturday, what, describe the routine for the Commandant.
What, what time did you have to do what?
Well, I'd usually come over to the core area in the morning and, but I'd have to get home and change clothes because I was invited to the President's luncheon.
and change clothes and go to the president's luncheon and then go over with the reviewing officer.
And if it was, we rotated between the three colonels and each one would be responsible for so many games to have the general down and he was the escort for the general and so forth.
If it was not my, if it was not an army general, I was free and then I would just go to the luncheon and then go over and I sat in the president's box.
Be on the reviewing stand of course and sit in the president's box.
Now if I had a general then I would have a lot more responsibility to get him there and so forth.
In a normal week were you in uniform pretty well all day?
I was in uniform
habitually.
I never wore civilian clothes except off duty.
That's what I thought.
And then who made the arrangements for the reviewing officers?
Well, the three colonels.
We divided it up.
General Simpson was kind of the moderator of this exercise.
And we would know well in advance and we would get these generals lined up several months in advance to come down.
Now, there were times when I was directed
to bring someone in.
I know Wisenbaker one time pulled me aside at a ball game and he said, I want Glenn Cothman, who used to be my roommate, incidentally, when I was a sophomore.
Used to be yours?
Yeah, he was my roommate when I was a sophomore, or we were roommates, and he was a major general in the Texas National Guard, and he was also a state senator.
Well, we normally
invited regular Army officers or regular officers from the military services.
We did not invite reserve officers, National Guard officers, people like that.
And he said, I want you to invite Glenn Koltzman down here.
I said, yes, sir, I'll get with General Simpson and we'll work something out on it.
He said, you didn't understand what I said.
I want him invited and he's sitting right down there.
You go down and invite him to be the reviewing officer.
So, you know, I understood the mission.
Talking about the reviewing officers, during your years here, who were some of the truly notable reviewing officers that you remember, either at a football game or at a final review?
Well, I remember the Marine Corps Commandant was down here, and he was a Medal of Honor winner.
I'm not sure, can't remember what his name was, but it might have been, anyway.
Then I had Shai Meyer, who was Chief of Staff of the Army, who I'd worked for years before, General Edward Meyer.
M-E-Y-E-R.
And they called him Shai, Shai Meyer.
And he was Chief of Staff of the Army, but I'd worked for him when I was in Heidelberg, and desops over there.
And we never had any incidents during...
No.
March-ins or final reviews?
No incidents that I know of.
Thank goodness.
What were your, during a football game, what were the concerns of a commandant?
Well, my concerns, especially the first and second year, at Thanksgiving, there was some, you know, a prank in the Corps where the
freshman would steal the company commander's clothing, put it in a footlocker, and then run out on the field and drop the footlocker in the middle of the field and take off.
Well, this was embarrassing.
I thought it was very stupid.
So I was going to put a stop to it.
So I would sit up in the stands, and I would take my binoculars with me, and I would survey down at the end zone because that's where it always started, especially when you had those seats down there.
and I'd see these freshmen come in sneaking in with a footlocker and I would get up and I would go down there and I would threaten them with an inch of their life if they dared take that footlocker on Kyle Field.
So I finally got that
that little thing stopping.
I got Tom Parsons to help me with the KKs, the University Police, to kind of watch for those people and not let them bring them.
First of all, don't let them bring the Foot Locker into the stadium.
But I think they brought the Foot Locker in, you know, like a day or two and hid it somewhere in the stadium.
But anyway, to prevent them from going out on the field.
Now that had not happened when you were... I never heard of that.
Really?
No, never heard of that.
Okay.
We wouldn't dare steal our upperclassmen's clothes, especially a senior, you know.
Did you pretty well get it cut down while you were Commandant?
Well, I got some of it stopped and then they had what they call hauling off where they would take people off somewhere and supposedly took one guy to Oklahoma and
I heard that story.
And took people here and there, and we kind of got that under control.
It was hard to stop anything.
What you had to do was get it under control.
And it's like one of the most serious things in the Corps when I was there was people making these pipe bombs and blowing them up.
It's a wonder someone wasn't hurt.
But I finally got a lead on that, and it turned out to be Boom Boom Olson.
And they called him Boom Boom.
Was he a student?
He was a student in the Corps.
And finally I pinned him down and I got him kicked out of the Corps.
What was the source of the explosive?
Black powder.
You can buy it in any gun shop.
Black powder and put it in a pipe and put a little pipe and put a fuse on it.
And as far as you know, where were they actually making them?
In the dorm.
Sure.
And what were they then doing with them?
Well they were planting them out in the middle of the quad and making a loud explosion.
I know one of them they put on a
on the window of one of the latrines, and fortunately there was no one in there had they been in there.
The glass, you know, shattered all in the latrine.
So it was dangerous.
So I spent some effort on stopping that.
As far as you know, was anyone ever injured seriously?
I don't know of anyone that was.
All right, now, for years they had been making
can of Babo.
They'd been making Babo bombs for years, hadn't they?
Well, yeah, I guess so.
Some of these might have been Babo bombs.
You know, they made a loud noise.
And using, what is it, M60 or M80?
M80 firecrackers.
Firecrackers.
I've heard stories about those.
You said the bombs.
This was the bomb you were talking about.
And as far as you know, one was never set off in a room, a pipe bomb, never set off in a car or anything like that.
No.
Somebody blew up the bugle stand one time with one of them.
Really?
And that was bad because, see, General Simpson's class, 1936, had given that bugle stand.
So we had to get it, you know, repaired and placed back.
What time, day or night, was this?
These things always happen at night.
Middle of the night?
Yeah.
The, during those first months that you were in charge, did you get any phone calls in the middle of the night at home?
Oh yes, yes.
What kind of, what was the nature of those?
See I told my wife, she would be very upset because we had, you know, daughters and any time you get a phone call midnight or later you know it's bad news and you know she'd be all
excited, you know, very concerned when the phone rang late at night.
And I told her what happened was that the mother said, I'm going to call the commandant because her son had called her and was complaining, crying or something.
Got the mother all upset.
So the mother's upset and she keeps saying, I'm going to call the commandant.
And the father is saying, no, it'll be all right.
Let's just, we can do it tomorrow.
And so finally, the father gets to the point where he would like to go to bed and go to sleep.
So in order to put a stop to it, he says, call her.
I mean, call him.
And so by this time, it's, you know, 10, 11, 12 o'clock at night, and I get a call.
Very few of them really were substantial, you know, in nature.
I mean, there was just usually a complaint, some...
freshman was all upset about this or that and got the mother upset.
But, you know, I'd look into it if it needed to be looked into.
But no core member, student?
Oh, I got a few obscene phone calls, you know, but I never knew who they were.
And that would be quick and they'd hang out?
Oh, yes, yes.
But not too many of those, I mean, you know.
Did anybody ever threaten you with any kind of a pipe bomb or any kind of prank?
No, no, nothing I know of.
On a Saturday, a home football Saturday, you got to campus about what time?
It just depended on whether I had the general or not and what else I had to do.
Of course, usually I had a lot of family that came in and, you know, the Corps didn't really need me over there to do anything other than I just liked to kind of be around when something was going on.
So sometimes I'd go over, sometimes I wouldn't.
It just depended on the circumstances.
If it was the general, I would, you know, usually be taking care of the general and we would, sometimes we'd give them a briefing on Saturday morning, sometimes we wouldn't.
Where would those reviewing officers stay when they were here?
Well, usually we had a room in the MSC.
Okay.
And it was the host officer responsible for picking them up?
Right.
The host officer picked them up at the airport.
They normally flew in, picked them up at the airport, took them to dinner that night, and kind of left them on their own for breakfast.
you know, if they could be a general, they could find their way to the cafeteria.
Now, if you were the host officer, where would you have taken them for dinner?
What was the, what was the upscale place?
There were not too many places like the Mexican place out on Highway 30.
Jose's?
Jose's.
That was, that was a good place that you'd get into.
One time I couldn't find any place to take General Hollingsworth, who was one of the notable
notable generals that visited down here.
And I took him to, at that time, Duchesne.
There was a restaurant in Duchesne.
And then there was TJ's, which was a good place, over at 707 across Texas, over there.
And there just, at that time, there weren't too many places to take people.
Never had any problems of
General being late, the flight not making it, or?
Well, the only time was General French, he was the commander of the ROTC program in this area in, you know, like seven to ten states around, you know, from New Mexico to Oklahoma, Kansas, all around.
And we were having some bad weather, and I heard, and he called the afternoon before and had to cancel out, and then
Somebody told me up there that the guy didn't like to fly, especially if it was bad weather.
So that's the reason he canceled out.
Well, I had had a dinner party, not a dinner party, but kind of a cocktail party prepared that night because he was our boss, see.
And we're going to have all of our officers in and Army ROTC officers and a pretty good crowd, you know, to kind of honor General French.
Well, my brother-in-law from Belton was coming down, Victor Means, Jr.,
was coming down, he was going to spend the night with us.
So when he got there, I said, okay, we called him Buddy.
I said, Buddy, now here's what you've got to do.
You've got to be General French.
And so what we did, we introduced him to everyone as General French.
Well, you know, after a while, everybody caught on, but in fact, a few of them knew General French.
They knew that this wasn't General French.
That's the only incident I had is where someone didn't show up.
Now I had another general that had to cancel out at the last minute for a legitimate reason, so I called Fort Hood and talked to protocol people and I said, hey, I need a general.
Send me a general down, you know, like this kind of, you know, rent a general.
And they sent me down, a brigadier general came with his wife and son,
next day, I mean he did it on short notice, but you know that's a good deal for especially somebody in Fort Hood to drive down and see a football game, go to the President's luncheon and review the troops and everything.
Now, Corps members never attempt any good bull tricks or anything in a review as they approach the reviewing stand, do they?
I don't think, I don't recall anything.
I've never heard of any.
That final review, there'll be, you know, sometimes there'll be something, but not when it's serious.
And then Saturday, if it's a day football game, when did your weekend duties then taper off?
When the football game's over?
When the football game's over, yeah.
And so then you go home and relax a little.
You and your family, were you all church members here?
Yes.
Where'd you go?
At the A&M Presbyterian Church up at the North Gate.
Do you all go to?
I go to A&M Presbyterian Church.
Sold that land for a million and a half dollars
joined in with a new church that was trying to get farmed out in South College Station and farm the Covenant Preparatory Church.
How's that going?
It's going very well, very well.
Nice plans so far.
We joined the church in Bryan in 1959, because I told my wife, we'll make friends in College Station anyway, let's broaden.
And so,
We've known a lot of people and have watched with interest, because that church is right near where we live, and drove by last night.
Our granddaughter that I said is visiting, we drove by, and the low lights were on.
It was about 8, 39 o'clock, and it looks very attractive.
Yes, it's nice.
It's gone well.
It's sure better than the old 19...